Let's take our first look at creating infrastructure using Terraform.
So here I am in my terminal and I'm in my Terraform directory.
If you want to know where that is,
you just type in which terraform and it'll show you where your Terraform directory is.
So inside my Terraform directory,
I've created a Udacity_EC2 directory
that we're going to use today to create our infrastructure.
So I'm just going to get into that directory,
and this is going to be our Terraform working directory for this exercise.
So what I want to do here is
terraform init and initialize this back-end. So that's great.
So now that Terraform's initialized,
I'm going to go ahead and move over to our code editor.
Let's take a look at RTF file that we're going to use to create an EC2 instance today.
So as we discussed we've got our provider,
our access key, and secret key,
which were downloaded as a CSV file from AWS,
and I've selected my region, us-east-1.
So the resource I'm going to create is an AWS instance.
I've selected the AMI that goes along with Amazon Linux 2,
and t2 micro, we're going to keep it in the free tier.
So you save that.
Let's get back over to the terminal.
Again, just because I just saved that file again,
I'm going to initialize the directory again,
and then we're going to run terraform plan and that's going to show us,
based on our main.tf file,
what Terraform thinks we're asking it to do.
So and it's right, one to add,
zero to change, zero to destroy.
Add one t2 micro instance.
So that looks good, terraform apply.
It's going to ask us to confirm here,
type yes and it's going to go ahead and create our instance for us.
So let's move over to the AWS management console.
I wanted you guys to take a look here at Identity and Access Management.
If you can't find your access keys to create the infrastructure,
you can go ahead and create some new ones.
It's not a big deal,
you just come in here under your user account,
under security credentials, and you just need to create new access keys.
So there were some access keys I couldn't find,
so I just went ahead and made some new ones,
and you just make this one inactive or you can delete it.
Then when you do that,
it's going to download a CSV file,
but it's also going to pop up a window.
You can copy your keys from either place.
But I digress.
Let's go over then look at EC2 and see if our instance
that we just created with Terraform is up and running.
Almost there, so this is the instance that we just
created and it's in the initializing stage.
So let's go ahead and let that come
into a full running state after it passes its status checks.
Great. It passed its status checks,
we have a fully up and running EC2 instance that we created with Terraform.
So now let's go back to our terminal and we are going to terminate that instance,
and the way we do that is terraform destroy.
Terraform wants us to know if we're really serious about this,
and we're going to say yes we are.
It's going to start the process of terminating our instance.
So let's go back over here to
the EC2 management page and our instance should be shutting down now,
and momentarily it will enter a terminating state.
It stopped and it's soon to be terminated.
So that's how you create and destroy infrastructure using Terraform.